Update IBM docs with better KFP instructions (#2347)
kubeflow/website: content/en/docs/ibm/pipelines.md

weight = 50
+++

> By default, Kubeflow pipelines on IBM Cloud are running with the Tekton backend. Below are the instructions on how to use the Kubeflow Pipelines with the Tekton backend [(kfp-tekton)](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfp-tekton).

Reviewer: Can you just double check that it's KF pipelines and not KFP with a capital "P" here @Tomcli in the first sentence. Or maybe it is, based on the second sentence 😄 
```suggestion
By default, Kubeflow Pipelines on IBM Cloud are running with the Tekton backend. In this guide you'll learn how to use the Kubeflow Pipelines with the Tekton backend [(kfp-tekton)](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfp-tekton).
```

(this is probably more "why the user should pay attention" with more "you" here)

In this tutorial, we use the below single step pipeline as our example

```python
from kfp import dsl
def echo_op():
    return dsl.ContainerOp(
        name='echo',
        image='busybox',
        command=['sh', '-c'],
        arguments=['echo "Got scheduled"']
    )

@dsl.pipeline(
    name='echo',
    description='echo pipeline'
)
def echo_pipeline(
):
    echo = echo_op()
```

# Declare the Python Client for Kubeflow Pipelines

> ## 1. Single User Kubeflow Pipelines with the SDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 1. Single-user Kubeflow Pipelines deployment with the SDK
```

> **Notes**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**:

```

Author: resolved

> * Python package [`kfp-tekton`](https://pypi.org/project/kfp-tekton/) v0.4.0 or above is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You will be using the Kubeflow Pipelines SDK ([`kfp-tekton`](https://pypi.org/project/kfp-tekton/)) v0.4.0 or above.
```

> * This code block below is for the single user Kubeflow deployment from the manifest
> [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/manifests/v1.2-branch/kfdef/kfctl_ibm.v1.2.0.yaml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/manifests/v1.2-branch/kfdef/kfctl_ibm.v1.2.0.yaml).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Using the 
[`kfctl_ibm.v1.2.0.yaml`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/manifests/v1.2-branch/kfdef/kfctl_ibm.v1.2.0.yaml)
manifest you can deploy Kubeflow for a single user using the SDK as follows:
```

```python
from kfp_tekton import TektonClient

KUBEFLOW_PUBLIC_ENDPOINT_URL = 'http://<Kubeflow_public_endpoint_URL>'
KUBEFLOW_PROFILE_NAME = None
client = TektonClient(host=KUBEFLOW_PUBLIC_ENDPOINT_URL)
```

> ## 2. Authenticating Multi-user Kubeflow Pipelines with the SDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2. Authenticating multi-user Kubeflow Pipelines with the SDK
```

> **Notes**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**:
```

> * Python package [`kfp-tekton`](https://pypi.org/project/kfp-tekton/) v0.4.0 or above is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You will be using the Kubeflow Pipelines SDK ([`kfp-tekton`](https://pypi.org/project/kfp-tekton/)) v0.4.0 or above.
```

> * This feature is available with multi-user, auth-enabled Kubeflow installation deployed from the manifest [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/manifests/v1.2-branch/kfdef/kfctl_ibm_multi_user.v1.2.0.yaml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/manifests/v1.2-branch/kfdef/kfctl_ibm_multi_user.v1.2.0.yaml).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Note that this feature is available with multi-user, auth-enabled Kubeflow installation deployed from the [`kfctl_ibm_multi_user.v1.2.0.yaml`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/manifests/v1.2-branch/kfdef/kfctl_ibm_multi_user.v1.2.0.yaml) 
manifest.
```

> * Since it transports sensitive information like session cookie value over edge network, we highly recommend enabling HTTPS for the public endpoint of Kubeflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

**Note**: You're highly recommended enabling HTTPS for the public endpoint of Kubeflow because this method transports sensitive information like session cookie value over edge network.
```

> It requires authentication via the public endpoint of Kubeflow deployment when using the Kubeflow Pipelines multi-user feature with Pipelines SDK. Below variables need to be provided, no matter coming from an in-cluster Jupyter notebook or a remote machine:

Reviewer: I think it would be best to clarify what "It" means (the method?) in the first sentence in the beginning

weight = 50
+++

> By default, Kubeflow Pipelines on IBM Cloud are running with the Tekton backend. In this guide you'll learn how to use the Kubeflow Pipelines with the Tekton backend [(kfp-tekton)](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfp-tekton).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, Kubeflow Pipelines on IBM Cloud are running with the Tekton backend. In this guide you'll learn how to use the Kubeflow Pipelines with the Tekton backend [(kfp-tekton)](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfp-tekton). This assumes you have deployed [Kubeflow on IBM Cloud using the instructions on this website](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/ibm/deploy/).

You can also do a [standalone installation of Kubeflow Pipelines with Tekton](https://github.com/kubeflow/kfp-tekton/blob/master/guides/kfp_tekton_install.md#standalone-kubeflow-pipelines-with-tekton-backend-deployment) if you don't want whole of Kubeflow. 
```

In this tutorial, we use the below single step pipeline as our example

```python
from kfp import dsl
def echo_op():
    return dsl.ContainerOp(
        name='echo',
        image='busybox',
        command=['sh', '-c'],
        arguments=['echo "Got scheduled"']
    )

@dsl.pipeline(
    name='echo',
    description='echo pipeline'
)
def echo_pipeline(
):
    echo = echo_op()
```

# Declare the Python Client for Kubeflow Pipelines

## 1. Single-user Kubeflow Pipelines deployment with the SDK

* You will be using the Kubeflow Pipelines SDK ([`kfp-tekton`](https://pypi.org/project/kfp-tekton/)) v0.4.0 or above.

> * Using the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If you have deployed Kubeflow on IBM Cloud using the 
```

[`kfctl_ibm.v1.2.0.yaml`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/manifests/v1.2-branch/kfdef/kfctl_ibm.v1.2.0.yaml)

> manifest you can deploy Kubeflow for a single user using the SDK as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
manifest you can configure ([`kfp-tekton`](https://pypi.org/project/kfp-tekton/)) SDK for a single user as follows:
```

```python
from kfp_tekton import TektonClient

KUBEFLOW_PUBLIC_ENDPOINT_URL = 'http://<Kubeflow_public_endpoint_URL>'
KUBEFLOW_PROFILE_NAME = None
client = TektonClient(host=KUBEFLOW_PUBLIC_ENDPOINT_URL)
```

## 2. Authenticating multi-user Kubeflow Pipelines with the SDK

* You will be using the Kubeflow Pipelines SDK ([`kfp-tekton`](https://pypi.org/project/kfp-tekton/)) v0.4.0 or above.
* Note that this feature is available with multi-user, auth-enabled Kubeflow installation deployed from the [`kfctl_ibm_multi_user.v1.2.0.yaml`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubeflow/manifests/v1.2-branch/kfdef/kfctl_ibm_multi_user.v1.2.0.yaml) 
manifest.

**Note**: You're highly recommended enabling HTTPS for the public endpoint of Kubeflow because this method transports sensitive information like session cookie values over edge network.

It requires authentication via the public endpoint of Kubeflow deployment when using the Kubeflow Pipelines multi-user feature with Pipelines SDK. 

> You need to provide the following three variables if you're using an in-cluster Jupyter notebook or a remote machine:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need to provide the following three variables if you're using an in-cluster Jupyter notebook or a remote client machine:
```

> Once you obtain above information, it can use the following Python code to list all your Pipelines experiments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you provide the three variables, the SDK can use the following Python code to list all your Kubeflow Pipelines experiments:
```

> ```Python

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```python
```

```

Pipelines components like experiments and runs are isolated by Kubeflow profiles. A Kubeflow user can only see Pipelines experiments and runs belonging to this user's Kubeflow profile.

> # Upload Pipelines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Upload pipelines
```

> Once the above Python client is declared, pipelines can be uploaded using Python. Run the below code block inside the Python session to upload the pipelines. The below code block shows how to upload different versions of the pipeline using the Python client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have declared the Python client, your Kubeflow pipelines can be uploaded using Python. 

Run the following code inside a Python session to upload the pipelines. This example shows different versions of the pipeline using the Python client.
```

```python
import os

# Initial version of the compiled pipeline
pipeline_file_path = 'echo_pipeline.yaml'
pipeline_name = 'echo_pipeline'

# For the purpose of this tutorial, we will be using the same pipeline for both version.
pipeline_version_file_path = 'echo_pipeline.yaml'
pipeline_version_name = 'new_echo_pipeline'

# Upload initial version of the pipeline
pipeline_file = os.path.join(pipeline_file_path)
pipeline = client.pipeline_uploads.upload_pipeline(pipeline_file, name=pipeline_name)

# Upload new version of the pipeline
pipeline_version_file = os.path.join(pipeline_version_file_path)
pipeline_version = client.pipeline_uploads.upload_pipeline_version(pipeline_version_file,
                                                                   name=pipeline_version_name,
                                                                   pipelineid=pipeline.id)
```

> # Run Pipelines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Run pipelines from the SDK
```

The `TektonClient` can run pipelines using one of the below sources:

1. [Python DSL source code](#run-pipelines-from-the-python-dsl-source-code)
2. [Compiled pipeline file](#run-pipelines-from-the-compiled-pipeline-file)
3. [List of uploaded pipelines](#run-pipelines-from-the-list-of-uploaded-pipelines)

## Run pipelines from the Python DSL source code

> To execute pipelines using the Python DSL source code, run the below code block in a Python session using the `echo_pipeline` example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn about executing pipelines using the Python DSL source code, try the code below in a Python session using the `echo_pipeline` example.
```

The `create_run_from_pipeline_func` takes the DSL source code to compile and run it directly using the Kubeflow pipeline API without

> uploading it to the pipeline list. This method is recommended if we are doing some quick experiments without version control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
uploading it to the pipeline list. This method is recommended if you are doing quick experiments without version control.
```

```python

> # We can overwrite the pipeline default parameters by providing a dictionary of key-value arguments.
> # If we don't want to overwrite the default parameters, then define the arguments as an empty dictionary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# You can overwrite the pipeline default parameters by providing a dictionary of key-value arguments.
# If you don't want to overwrite the default parameters, then define the arguments as an empty dictionary.
```

arguments={}

client.create_run_from_pipeline_func(echo_pipeline, arguments=arguments, namespace=KUBEFLOW_PROFILE_NAME)
```

## Run pipelines from the compiled pipeline file

> Alternatively, we can also run the pipeline directly using a pre-compiled file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can also run the pipeline directly using a pre-compiled file. 
```

```python
EXPERIMENT_NAME = 'Demo Experiments'
experiment = client.create_experiment(name=EXPERIMENT_NAME, namespace=KUBEFLOW_PROFILE_NAME)
run = client.run_pipeline(experiment.id, 'echo-pipeline', 'echo_pipeline.yaml')
``` 

## Run pipelines from the list of uploaded pipelines

> Similarly, we can also run the pipeline from the list of uploaded pipelines using the same `run_pipeline` function. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, you can also run the pipeline from the list of uploaded pipelines using the same `run_pipeline` function. 
```

```python
EXPERIMENT_NAME = 'Demo Experiments'
experiment = client.create_experiment(name=EXPERIMENT_NAME, namespace=KUBEFLOW_PROFILE_NAME)

> # Find the pipeline ID that we want to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Find the pipeline ID that you want to use.
```

```python
import os

# Initial version of the compiled pipeline
pipeline_file_path = 'echo_pipeline.yaml'
pipeline_name = 'echo_pipeline'

# For the purpose of this tutorial, we will be using the same pipeline for both version.
pipeline_version_file_path = 'echo_pipeline.yaml'
pipeline_version_name = 'new_echo_pipeline'

# Upload initial version of the pipeline
pipeline_file = os.path.join(pipeline_file_path)
pipeline = client.pipeline_uploads.upload_pipeline(pipeline_file, name=pipeline_name)

# Upload new version of the pipeline
pipeline_version_file = os.path.join(pipeline_version_file_path)
pipeline_version = client.pipeline_uploads.upload_pipeline_version(pipeline_version_file,
                                                                   name=pipeline_version_name,
                                                                   pipelineid=pipeline.id)
```

# Run pipelines from the SDK
The `TektonClient` can run pipelines using one of the below sources:

1. [Python DSL source code](#run-pipelines-from-the-python-dsl-source-code)
2. [Compiled pipeline file](#run-pipelines-from-the-compiled-pipeline-file)

> 3. [List of uploaded pipelines](#run-pipelines-from-the-list-of-uploaded-pipelines)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. [Uploaded pipelines on KFP engine](#run-pipelines-from-the-list-of-uploaded-pipelines)
```

Reviewer: thanks @animeshsingh for the great suggestions, learning a lot here
